msgid ""
msgstr ""
"Project-Id-Version: The Rust RFC Book\n"
"POT-Creation-Date: 2025-12-22T09:04:45Z\n"
"PO-Revision-Date: \n"
"Last-Translator: \n"
"Language-Team: \n"
"Language: zh_TW\n"
"MIME-Version: 1.0\n"
"Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8\n"
"Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit\n"
"Plural-Forms: nplurals=1; plural=0;\n"

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:1
msgid "Feature Name: n/a"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:2
msgid "Start Date: 2020-12-03"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:3
msgid ""
"RFC PR: [rust-lang/rfcs#3037](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3037)"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:5
msgid "Summary"
msgstr "摘要"

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:8
msgid ""
"The focus of this year is on project health, specifically as it relates to "
"Rust's governance structure."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:10
msgid "Establishing charters for teams in the Rust project"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:11
msgid "Provide for unified process and vocabulary across the project"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:12
msgid "Creating a single place for tracking a list of ongoing projects"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:14
msgid ""
"The core team will drive these efforts in coordination with all Rust teams "
"and working groups. As the Rust teams have grown over the years, there is "
"increasingly less cross-chatter that naturally happens due to shared "
"membership of teams, and this RFC aims to improve our written documentation "
"to provide for a smoother onboarding process for new team members, as well "
"as improving the ability of current team members to evaluate who to consult "
"on new ideas or projects."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:16
msgid "Motivation"
msgstr "動機"

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:19
msgid ""
"The Rust project governance has grown into a large and diverse structure, "
"with most teams not having well defined expectations about scope and "
"membership. As the project has grown, we have also struggled with a unified "
"place for new and existing contributors to learn about active efforts and "
"join in. Our efforts to establish charters and unified vocabulary will help "
"contributors new and old to navigate our organizational structure. Our "
"expectation is that this work will also help each team better understand "
"what their aims are and will help the core team better serve the team's "
"needs."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:21
msgid "Explanation"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:24
msgid "Chartering work in the Rust project"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:26
msgid ""
"The Rust teams, in concert with the core team, will work to establish a "
"charter for each of the Rust teams over the course of the year, with an aim "
"for defining, particularly, the purpose and membership requirements. Our "
"goal is that going into 2022, all active groups within the Rust project will "
"have well-defined charters and membership. This includes all pre-existing "
"groups in Rust governance, including domain working groups, project groups, "
"and working groups."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:28
msgid ""
"We have a number of active efforts in the Rust project which are not "
"currently called teams. By the end of the year, we expect that regardless of "
"the naming, every active group in Rust’s governance will be chartered. The "
"core team will additionally propose an RFC clarifying the naming and setting "
"policy guidelines for team formation towards the end of the year, once we "
"have worked through a number of charters and can set these expectations "
"better."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:30
msgid ""
"This RFC does not aim to provide a fine-grained framework for precisely what "
"form these charters will take. Furthermore, it is our expectation that these "
"charters will be “living” documents, parts of which will be updated as the "
"group changes roles or membership, and the precise expectations of charters "
"are likely to evolve over time."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:32
msgid "However, at minimum, they should provide answers to these questions:"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:34 src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:52
msgid "What does this group do?"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:35 src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:124
msgid "How does this group make decisions?"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:36 src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:128
msgid "What is expected of members to be part of this group?"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:37 src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:134
msgid "Where does this group work?"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:38 src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:138
msgid "Who is the point of contact for questions on the state of this group?"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:40
msgid ""
"The core team, upon merging of this RFC, will prepare a new repository for "
"governance RFC work. This repository will have empty charters for the "
"existing known groups, and changes will be approved by the core team. It is "
"expected that teams forming new groups after the merge of this RFC will "
"prepare charters and merge them into that repository before kicking off the "
"group's tasks."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:46
msgid ""
"The reason a separate repository is chosen is because the underlying format "
"and document style is likely to be quite different; we also intend to track "
"changes via in-place updates to charters rather than the RFC style of filing "
"a new RFC which documents the new state. The structure of the repository is "
"likely to also have more nesting/folders than the rfcs repository."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:54
msgid ""
"This RFC proposes using the DARCI framework for this section, as a way to "
"both provide structure, and help satisfy the goal that readers can quickly "
"decide whether the group is responsible for decisions or implementation work "
"on a particular topic, or if they need to be consulted (but not able to "
"solely approve), or if they are merely asking to be informed."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:60
msgid ""
"This section should also reference charters for subgroups. For example, the "
"compiler and dev-tools teams have a large number of subgroups which should "
"be documented here."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:64
msgid ""
"Groups should aim to limit these sections to start out, especially in the "
"area of being accountable/responsible: one of the goals of charter work is "
"to ensure that our governance structure matches reality, so it is better to "
"not be responsible for things that you do not think you can do well. "
"Charters are living documents, and growing scope over time is reasonable: "
"starting out with a core set that you know the team can be successful with "
"is a good idea. Documenting what is left temporarily out of scope is a good "
"idea."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:72
msgid ""
"Each of these sections should define topics which fall into them. It is "
"possible that for some sections there will be multiple lists of topics, with "
"different subsets of the group (e.g. leaders vs. the whole group) defined as "
"responsible for that subsection."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:77
msgid "Decision maker"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:79
msgid ""
"For some groups, it may be useful to select a subset of consensus builders "
"or deciders, but for most teams it is expected that this will simply be the "
"team as a whole. This can also be on a per-topic basis; for example, a team "
"can record that bikeshed questions are for the team leads to ultimately "
"decide. It is also possible that some questions are escalated to some other "
"team. For example, project groups would often record the parent team as the "
"decision makers, but the project group is still accountable for completing "
"the work to prepare for that decision, and has some amount of \"small\" "
"decision making."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:88
msgid "Accountable"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:90
msgid ""
"This is the set of topics that the team is accountable for completing or "
"executing work in. The most common case of being accountable but not "
"responsible is when a subgroup has been delegated the responsibility for "
"executing."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:94
msgid ""
"The goal for this section is that this is the group that will be asked and "
"consulted with if the task(s) are not being done in a timely manner. They "
"should also be actively tracking work in any area they are accountable for, "
"so that they can communicate to groups which need to be informed if the task "
"is not done; ideally in time for more resources to be invested or for others "
"to know that the dependency they may need won't be ready."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:101
msgid "Responsible"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:103
msgid ""
"This is the set of topics on which the group are the ones engaged in work. "
"This is how, for example, people can discover where to go if they're "
"interested in actively working on some feature or area."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:107
msgid "Consulted"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:109
msgid ""
"This is the set of topics on which this group should be consulted. In "
"particular, consultation means that the group may have feedback, but they "
"are not going to make any final decisions."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:113
msgid "Informed"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:115
msgid ""
"This is the set of topics on which this group should be informed. This means "
"that the group will not provide feedback on the topic."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:118
msgid ""
"The goal for this section is that some teams would benefit from knowing of "
"particular decisions or events, but don't need to engage on the process "
"itself. One example is changes made in rust-lang/rust with sufficient weight "
"that we want to mention them in release notes - the relnotes label is a way "
"to passively inform the release team of this."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:126
msgid ""
"This section establishes the process (or processes) by which the team makes "
"decisions. This is useful for both team members and outside parties. Any "
"normative documents produced by the team (for example, the Reference for "
"lang team) should also be listed here."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:130
msgid ""
"The membership expectations can be diverse for various groups. Some groups "
"can meet multiple times a week and expect team members to devote time "
"outside these meetings to drive proposals and otherwise contribute, while "
"other teams can have no synchronous meetings and expect bursts of work from "
"time to time."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:132
msgid ""
"Especially when multiple teams are interfacing, or a new member is asked to "
"join a team, having this documentation is immensely valuable to communicate "
"up front the ground rules for involvement."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:136
msgid ""
"This can include the meeting platforms used and chat channels. It’s the "
"contact information for the whole group, not just the contact person noted "
"previously."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:140
msgid ""
"This question is aimed at aiding parties within the Rust organization "
"outside the team to identify who to approach with questions or feedback. "
"This may be a team lead, but could also just be a point of contact."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:142
msgid ""
"Currently, not all teams have such a clearly defined point of contact. This "
"makes it hard for people seeking to interface with the team to establish "
"communications, especially when they don’t currently know Rust’s governance."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:144
msgid ""
"This is likely not the person that should be contacted e.g. requesting "
"mentoring help as a new contributor or when looking for something to do.  "
"However, the core team or other project leaders may reach out here to help "
"with e.g. scheduling a meeting with the team. If there's a lead (or leads), "
"it can often be true that they are also the point of contact, but some "
"groups don't have leads.  All groups should have a point of contact, though."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:146
msgid "Unifying processes and vocabulary"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:148
msgid ""
"Today, Rust teams decide individually where to host documents and have "
"discussions. We do not want to take away these choices from the Rust teams: "
"we believe that teams know best what works for them. However, sometimes the "
"divergence here is unintentional, and providing defaults that work well can "
"be an excellent way to remove friction."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:150
msgid ""
"The specific details of the vocabulary and processes that we will seek to "
"unify are not yet clear, primarily because there is no one place where all "
"of the specifics of team activity are laid out. As we begin to establish "
"charters over the course of the year, we will begin to identify common needs "
"and current choices, and will work to diverge only when needed."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:152
msgid "Some examples of currently divergent process and vocabulary:"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:154
msgid "Project group vs. working group"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:155
msgid "Major change proposals in lang/compiler (but not other teams)"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:156
msgid ""
"Best approach to propose new ideas differs across teams and is not well-"
"documented (and even within a team there can be lack of clarity, e.g., on "
"which things need a major change proposal or just a PR being fine)"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:160
msgid "Unified project tracking"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:162
msgid ""
"A frequent concern -- even amongst our most active team members -- is that "
"knowing what is going on in teams can be difficult. It can be difficult to "
"identify what efforts are active or temporarily paused, and what kind of "
"feedback is sought for on proposals."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:164
msgid ""
"As part of our charter and unified process/vocabulary work, we would like to "
"surface the ongoing work in teams in a common way. The aim is to target "
"contributors/maintainers, both existing and new, not people aiming to "
"propose a new project. (It may be a useful gauge of how much bandwidth the "
"team has left, though)."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:166
msgid ""
"It is expected that the road towards tracking team efforts for all of our "
"teams is going to require more work than we can fit in this coming year. "
"That said, a number of our teams have already established or are working to "
"establish similar tracking dashboards: the [language](https://github.com/"
"rust-lang/lang-team/projects/2), [library](https://github.com/rust-lang/libs-"
"team/projects/2), and [crates.io](https://github.com/rust-lang/crates.io/"
"projects/2) teams. We expect to unify the structure of these existing "
"dashboards and publish guiding documentation which other teams can use as a "
"framework for making their own; by the end of the year we want to add a "
"compiler team dashboard but do not expect to be able to expand the set much "
"further."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:172
msgid "Prior art"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:175
msgid "Previous Rust Roadmaps"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:177
msgid ""
"Rust’s roadmap process was established by [RFC 1728](https://rust-lang."
"github.io/rfcs/1728-north-star.html) in 2016. Since then, we have had 4 "
"roadmaps, all of which have included some amount of governance work:"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:179
msgid ""
"2017: [RFC 1774](https://rust-lang.github.io/rfcs/1774-roadmap-2017.html) - "
"providing mentoring at all levels"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:180
msgid ""
"2018: [RFC 2314](https://rust-lang.github.io/rfcs/2314-roadmap-2018.html) - "
"growing Rust’s leadership and teams"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:181
msgid ""
"2019: [RFC 2657](https://rust-lang.github.io/rfcs/2657-roadmap-2019.html) - "
"working groups for the compiler and language teams"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:182
msgid ""
"2020: [RFC 2857](https://rust-lang.github.io/rfcs/2857-roadmap-2020.html) - "
"increasing bandwidth for governance work, design discussions"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:184
msgid ""
"In the 2017, 2019, and 2020 roadmaps, a major challenge of following through "
"on the aims for Rust governance has been a lack of explicit, achievable, "
"goals. In 2018, we did a much better job of identifying explicit goals, but "
"the 2018 edition and related work pulled significant resources from the "
"governance work proposed in the roadmap. This year, we expect our primary "
"focus to be governance. We also lay out a very concrete set of tasks for "
"teams this year. Work this year in the language and library teams in "
"particular has helped us formalize exactly what is needed from charters and "
"how to help teams be productive."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:192
msgid "Frequently asked questions"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:194
msgid "Where is technical work? Where is the 2021 Edition?"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:196
msgid ""
"This RFC does not lay out any technical work items, including the 2021 "
"edition. It is expected that teams will continue to work on these throughout "
"the year, but in conducting internal surveys from team leads, it is our "
"impression that there is no unifying theme for these efforts. The core team "
"encourages individual teams to also perform internal planning on what they'd "
"like to do over the next year, and ideally post those in public places (such "
"as Inside Rust or the main blog, depending on intended audience). The core "
"team has been doing some more thinking on the 2021 Edition RFC, but we are "
"fairly confident that the contents of this roadmap will not be altered by "
"the final shape of those efforts."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:198
msgid "Team Roadmaps"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:200
msgid ""
"[Clippy 2021 Roadmap](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-clippy/pull/6462)"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:202
msgid "Where is the Rust Foundation's roadmap?"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:204
msgid ""
"The project will not directly set a roadmap for the Foundation, though the "
"project’s roadmap efforts are likely to play into the Foundation's own "
"roadmapping work."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:206
msgid "Drawbacks"
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:209
msgid "None major enough to document here yet."
msgstr ""

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:211
msgid "Unresolved questions"
msgstr "未解決的問題"

#: src/3037-roadmap-2021.md:214
msgid "None yet."
msgstr ""
