msgid ""
msgstr ""
"Project-Id-Version: The Rust RFC Book\n"
"POT-Creation-Date: 2025-12-01T05:53:05Z\n"
"PO-Revision-Date: \n"
"Last-Translator: \n"
"Language-Team: \n"
"MIME-Version: 1.0\n"
"Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8\n"
"Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit\n"
"Language: en\n"
"Plural-Forms: nplurals=1; plural=0;\n"

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:1
msgid "Feature Name: n/a"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:2
msgid "Start Date: 2022-11-07"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:3
msgid ""
"RFC PR: [rust-lang/rfcs#3346](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3346)"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:4
msgid "Rust Issue: n/a"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:6
msgid "Summary"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:8
msgid ""
"Create an operational semantics team that is tasked with owning the "
"semantics of unsafe code. This responsibility would be transferred from [T-"
"types](3254-types-team.md), which had previously been given ownership of "
"this domain. Additionally, this team replaces the Unsafe Code Guidelines "
"working group, which has been doing much of the work in this space."
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:10
msgid "Mission and responsibilities"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:12
msgid ""
"As of this RFC, many of the questions around the rules governing unsafe code "
"in Rust are unanswered. The team is responsible for answering these question "
"by producing an operational semantics that specifies those rules. As a part "
"of this semantics, questions around memory and aliasing models, multi-"
"threading and atomics, and generally \"what constitutes undefined behavior\" "
"will be answered. This is expected to be a massive undertaking requiring "
"lots of work and collaboration. As such, it is worth calling out that a very "
"important part of T-opsem's responsibility is in the organizational role it "
"plays. The team is responsible for creating a plan, ensuring that all "
"interested parties have a chance to provide input, and ensuring that the end "
"result aligns with the goals and values of the Rust project and T-lang."
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:14
msgid ""
"Furthermore, the team is responsible for ensuring that while a stable "
"operational semantics does not yet exist for the language, the project "
"remains on track for eventually having one. Concretely, this means that any "
"decisions made by other teams which add new requirements to the operational "
"semantics or make new promises about what is or is not undefined behavior "
"must be approved by T-opsem."
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:16
msgid "Scope"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:18
msgid ""
"It is not possible to precisely define where the scope of the team's "
"responsibilities ends. At minimum, any behavior that is only observable in "
"unsafe code is definitely within scope of T-opsem. However, there are parts "
"of the language that do not satisfy the \"only observable in unsafe code\" "
"condition, and yet interact very heavily with optimizations, "
"implementability of Miri, and other topics core to T-opsem's interests. As "
"such, T-opsem may at any point come to an agreement with any of the other "
"teams to take (possibly partial) ownership of such questions."
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:20
msgid "Examples"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:22
msgid ""
"**When may a raw pointer be used to write to memory that a unique reference "
"also points to?**"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:24
msgid ""
"Writing via a raw pointer requires `unsafe` code, meaning this question is "
"in scope for T-opsem. The answer to this question also has broad "
"implications for the usability of the `unsafe` subset of the Rust language. "
"As such, the lang team will need to approve the high-level answer."
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:26
msgid "**Do match guards have semantic meaning?**"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:28
msgid ""
"Match guards are inserted by the compiler around match statements to ensure "
"that if guards cannot change the value being matched on. Whether match "
"guards should exist at all primarily affects exhaustiveness checking, and so "
"is a question for T-types and T-lang to answer, not T-opsem."
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:30
msgid ""
"However, T-opsem is responsible for deciding whether these match guards have "
"semantic meaning at runtime, as that is only observable to `unsafe` code in "
"if-guards."
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:32
msgid "**Should an `Unordered` atomic ordering be added to the language?**"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:34
msgid ""
"The behavior of an `Unordered` ordering is distinguishable from a `Relaxed` "
"ordering in strictly safe code. However, T-lang should still consult T-opsem "
"on this question, because T-opsem is expected to be the team that is most "
"familiar with and has the most interest in the semantics of atomic memory "
"models."
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:36
msgid "Relationships to other teams"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:38
msgid ""
"**T-lang**: The team is a subteam of T-lang. It has the same relationship to "
"T-lang as [T-types](3254-types-team.md) has. This means decisions about "
"\"details\" will be made by the team alone, but decisions around the big "
"picture \"direction\" will require consultation with T-lang."
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:40
msgid ""
"**T-types**: As [T-types](3254-types-team.md) will no longer own semantics "
"questions, the responsibilities of T-opsem and T-types are not expected to "
"overlap. However, like other teams, T-types is expected to consult T-opsem "
"on any changes that require support from the operational semantics. For "
"example, if T-types wants to extend the borrow checker to allow more code "
"patterns, T-opsem must confirm that the code that this permits can be "
"supported by a reasonable operational semantics. Conversely, when T-opsem "
"wants to declare some unsafe code UB, it better be the case that T-types "
"does not have plans to allow the same action to be expressible in safe code. "
"Additionally, T-types and T-opsem are expected to need to collaborate "
"heavily on the syntax and semantics of MIR, since MIR is pivotal to both "
"teams' interests."
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:42
msgid ""
"**T-compiler**: Unlike T-types, T-opsem is not a subteam of T-compiler as it "
"does not own any implementations. However, T-compiler is still expected to "
"request approval from T-opsem before adding any optimization that depends on "
"new theorems about the operational semantics. T-opsem will ensure that these "
"theorems are expected to be true and are reasonable things for the compiler "
"to depend on now."
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:44
msgid "Processes"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:46
msgid ""
"For most decisions, T-opsem will use a standard FCP process. This includes "
"at least those cases where other teams are asking T-opsem for approval, and "
"internal team decisions that don't affect the language or other teams."
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:48
msgid ""
"Because of the size and complexity inherent to attempting to stabilize an "
"operational semantics, this RFC does not propose any particular process for "
"achieving that. How an operational semantics is planned, evaluated, and "
"stabilized is an important set of questions that will need to be answered, "
"but requires more work and is sufficiently thorny to deserve its own RFC."
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:50
msgid "Membership"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:52
msgid ""
"New members will be added to the team using a process identical to one "
"already used by the libs and style teams. Specifically:"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:54
msgid ""
"Proposed new members of the team are nominated by existing members. All "
"existing members of the team must affirmatively agree to the addition of a "
"member, with zero objections; if there is any objection to a nomination, the "
"new member will not be added. In addition, the team lead or another team "
"member will check with the moderation team regarding any person nominated "
"for membership, to provide an avenue for awareness of concerns or red flags."
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:56
msgid ""
"When considering someone for membership, the qualifications below will all "
"be taken into account:"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:58
msgid ""
"Is this person **familiar with the current state of operational semantics** "
"work in Rust?"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:59
msgid ""
"Has this person **contributed signifiantly** to the problem space around "
"operational semantics?"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:60
msgid ""
"There is no specific area in which this contribution must have taken place - "
"proposing new designs, preparing a formalized version of the spec, writing "
"libraries that make use of the semantics, writing optimizations that make "
"use of the semantics, contributing to miri and related tooling, or preparing "
"documentation and teaching materials are all possibilities."
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:61
msgid ""
"Does this person have a **good understanding of the tradeoffs** that affect "
"operational semantics work?"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:62
msgid ""
"Have they demonstrated a desire and ability to find solutions that balance "
"and support all of these interests?"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:63
msgid "Is this person **responsible**?"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:64
msgid ""
"When they agree to take on a task, do they either get it done or identify "
"that they are not able to follow through and ask for help?"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:65
msgid "Is this person able to **lead others to a productive conversation**?"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:66
msgid ""
"Are there times when a conversation was stalled out and this person was able "
"to step in and get the design discussion back on track?"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:67
msgid ""
"This could have been by suggesting a compromise, but it may also be by "
"asking the right questions or encouraging the right tone."
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:68
msgid "Is this person able to **disagree productively**?"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:69
msgid ""
"When they are having a debate, do they make an active effort to understand "
"and repeat back others' points of view?"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:70
msgid ""
"Do they \"steelman\", looking for ways to restate others' points in the most "
"convincing way?"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:71
msgid "Is this person **active**?"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:72
msgid "Are they attending meetings regularly?"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:73
msgid ""
"Either in meeting or elsewhere, do they comment on discussions and otherwise?"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:75
msgid ""
"The last four bullets are lightly edited versions of a subset of the [T-lang "
"membership qualifications](https://lang-team.rust-lang.org/membership.html)."
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:79
msgid ""
"Like for many teams, membership is kept up to date and team members who are "
"inactive for more than 6 months may be moved to the alumni team."
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:81
msgid "Team Leads"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:83
msgid "Leads are responsible for:"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:85
msgid "Leading and scheduling team meetings"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:86
msgid "Selecting the deep dive meetings"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:87
msgid "Making decisions regarding team membership"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:88
msgid "General \"buck stops here\"-type decisions"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:90
msgid ""
"Leads typically serve for 6 months to 1 year, at which point the team will "
"consider whether to rotate."
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:92
msgid ""
"The initial team leads are Ralf Jung and Jakob Degen. The leads will decide "
"the remaining members after the RFC has been accepted."
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:94
msgid "Meetings"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:96
msgid ""
"The team will have a monthly planning meeting during which the remaining "
"meetings are scheduled."
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:98
msgid ""
"The majority of the remaining meetings are expected to be deep dive "
"meetings: Someone either presents a problem they have discovered and why it "
"is difficult or they present a proposed solution to a pre-existing problem. "
"For example, most individual issues on the unsafe-code-guidelines repository "
"might be a good candidate for a meeting."
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:100
msgid ""
"As noted above, the team and certainly all of its members are expected to "
"have interests that extend past the strict scope of the team. Because of "
"this meetings might also be used to hold discussions about topics in the "
"broader problem space. Some possible examples are \"how does weak memory "
"modeling work in miri\" or \"what are common ergonomics problems users face "
"when writing unsafe code.\""
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:102
msgid "Drawbacks and Alternatives"
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:104
msgid ""
"This further complicates ownership. There would now be a third team in "
"addition to T-lang and T-types that might be responsible for deciding on a "
"particular language question."
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:106
msgid ""
"This is not always necessarily a drawback. It can instead be seen as a "
"concession to the reality that as the language matures, the questions that "
"must be answered require increasingly careful consideration from more than "
"one perspective."
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:108
msgid ""
"Unlike T-types, this team does not own any code. As such, there is no "
"procedural processes in place to, for example, ensure that Miri remains in "
"line with the decisions of T-opsem."
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:110
msgid ""
"Still, because of the overlapping interests between people working on Miri "
"and T-opsem, it seems unlikely that there is a real risk of divergence."
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:112
msgid ""
"One alternative is to maintain the status quo, that is to have T-types "
"continue to be responsible for these decisions."
msgstr ""

#: src/3346-t-opsem.md:114
msgid ""
"Currently, the intersection between the members of WG-unsafe-code-guidelines "
"and T-types is small. This means this option seems non-ideal, as it is "
"unlikely that individuals interested in the topics that remain with T-types "
"after this RFC are the same people who are most interested in working on "
"opsem topics."
msgstr ""
