msgid ""
msgstr ""
"Project-Id-Version: The Rust RFC Book\n"
"POT-Creation-Date: 2025-12-01T05:53:05Z\n"
"PO-Revision-Date: \n"
"Last-Translator: \n"
"Language-Team: \n"
"MIME-Version: 1.0\n"
"Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8\n"
"Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit\n"
"Language: zh_CN\n"
"Plural-Forms: nplurals=1; plural=0;\n"

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:1
msgid "Feature Name: stdsimd_project_group"
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:2
msgid "Start Date: 2020-08-28"
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:3
msgid ""
"RFC PR: [rust-lang/rfcs#2977](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2977)"
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:4
msgid ""
"Rust Issue: [rust-lang/rust-libs#4](https://github.com/rust-lang/libs-team/"
"issues/4)"
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:6
msgid "Summary"
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:9
msgid ""
"This is a project group RFC version of [`lang-team#29`](https://github.com/"
"rust-lang/lang-team/issues/29)."
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:11
msgid ""
"This RFC establishes a new project group, under the libs team, to produce a "
"portable SIMD API in a new `rust-lang/stdsimd` repository, exposed through a "
"new `std::simd` (and `core::simd`) module in the standard library in the "
"same manner as [`stdarch`](https://github.com/rust-lang/stdarch). The output "
"of this project group will be the finalization of [RFC 2948](https://github."
"com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2948) and stabilization of `std::simd`."
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:13
msgid "Motivation"
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:16
msgid ""
"The current stable `core::arch` module is described by [RFC 2325](https://"
"rust-lang.github.io/rfcs/2325-stable-simd.html), which considers a portable "
"API desirable but out-of-scope. The current [RFC 2948](https://github.com/"
"rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2948) provides a good motivation for this API. Various "
"ecosystem implementations of portable SIMD have appeared over the years, "
"including [`packed_simd`](https://github.com/rust-lang/packed_simd), and "
"[`wide`](https://github.com/Lokathor/wide), each taking a different set of "
"trade-offs in implementation while retaining some similarities in their "
"public API. The group will pull together a \"blessed\" implementation in the "
"standard library with the explicit goal of stabilization for the [2021 "
"edition](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2966)."
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:18
msgid "Charter"
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:21
msgid "Goals"
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:23
msgid "Determine the shape of the portable SIMD API."
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:24
msgid ""
"Get an unstable `std::simd` and `core::simd` API in the standard library. "
"This may mean renaming `packed_simd` to `stdsimd` and working directly on "
"it, or creating a new repository and pulling in chunks of code as needed."
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:25
msgid ""
"Produce a stabilization plan to allow portions of `std::simd` to be "
"stabilized when they're ready, and coordinate with other unstable features."
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:26
msgid "Respond to user feedback and review contributions to the API."
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:27
msgid ""
"Update [RFC 2948](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2948) based on the "
"final API and stabilization plan."
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:28
msgid "Stabilize `std::simd`!"
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:30
msgid "Non Goals"
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:32
msgid ""
"This group isn't directly attempting to build out more `core::arch` APIs."
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:34
msgid "Membership Requirements"
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:36
msgid ""
"Group membership is open, any interested party can participate in "
"discussions, repeat contributors will be added to appropriate teams."
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:38
msgid "Additional Questions"
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:40
msgid ""
"What support do you need, and separately want, from the Rust organization?"
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:42
msgid ""
"Support scaffolding a space to work and integrating `stdsimd` into `libcore` "
"and input from engineers who are familiar with this space."
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:44
msgid "Why should this be a project group over a community effort?"
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:46
msgid ""
"Community efforts have already produced libraries that are in use, but "
"pulling those together in the standard library needs a group with "
"permissions to get things merged."
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:48
msgid "What do you expect the relationship to the team be?"
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:50
msgid ""
"The project group will regularly update libs on how things are going, "
"whether there are any blockers"
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:52
msgid ""
"Who are the initial shepherds/leaders? (This is preferably 2â€“3 individuals, "
"but not required.)"
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:54
msgid "@BurntSushi"
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:55
msgid "@calebzulawski"
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:56
msgid "@hsivonen"
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:57
msgid "@KodrAus"
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:58
msgid "@Lokathor"
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:60
msgid "Is your group long-running or temporary?"
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:62
msgid "Temporary"
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:64
msgid "If it is temporary, how long do you see it running for?"
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:66
msgid "Until the 2021 edition, which is probably mid 2021."
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:68
msgid ""
"If applicable, which other groups or teams do you expect to have close "
"contact with?"
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:70
msgid "The project group will interact with:"
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:72
msgid "libs"
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:73
msgid "compiler"
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:75
msgid "Where do you see your group needing help?"
msgstr ""

#: src/2977-stdsimd.md:77
msgid ""
"There will be lots of feedback to gather from users and input from compiler "
"developers on how to approach implementation."
msgstr ""
