msgid ""
msgstr ""
"Project-Id-Version: The Rust RFC Book\n"
"POT-Creation-Date: 2025-12-01T05:53:05Z\n"
"PO-Revision-Date: \n"
"Last-Translator: \n"
"Language-Team: \n"
"MIME-Version: 1.0\n"
"Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8\n"
"Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit\n"
"Language: zh_CN\n"
"Plural-Forms: nplurals=1; plural=0;\n"

#: src/3533-combine-infra-and-release-teams.md:1
msgid "Feature Name: combine-infra-and-release"
msgstr ""

#: src/3533-combine-infra-and-release-teams.md:2
msgid "Start Date: 2023-11-23"
msgstr ""

#: src/3533-combine-infra-and-release-teams.md:3
msgid ""
"RFC PR: [rust-lang/rfcs#3533](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3533)"
msgstr ""

#: src/3533-combine-infra-and-release-teams.md:4
msgid "Rust Issue: N/A"
msgstr ""

#: src/3533-combine-infra-and-release-teams.md:6
msgid "Summary"
msgstr ""

#: src/3533-combine-infra-and-release-teams.md:8
msgid ""
"This RFC proposes merging the Release team into the Infrastructure team as a "
"subteam. The membership of the Infrastructure and Release teams proper "
"remain the same.[^subteam]"
msgstr ""

#: src/3533-combine-infra-and-release-teams.md:10
msgid ""
"Note: Members of subteams are not automatically direct members of their "
"parent team. So Release members will be part of the wider Infra team family "
"but _not_ direct members of the team proper. In practical terms this means, "
"among other things, that Release team members would not have checkbox "
"authority associated with direct Infra team membership, but Release team "
"members could serve as the Leadership Council representative for Infra."
msgstr ""

#: src/3533-combine-infra-and-release-teams.md:12
msgid "Motivation"
msgstr ""

#: src/3533-combine-infra-and-release-teams.md:14
msgid ""
"Historically the Release team has had a much smaller scope than other teams. "
"It typically only functions to execute on releases. While this is not a "
"trivial amount of work, it is definitely much smaller than other top-level "
"teams' purviews (e.g., the compiler team's purview to develop the Rust "
"compiler)."
msgstr ""

#: src/3533-combine-infra-and-release-teams.md:16
msgid ""
"[RFC 3392](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/blob/master/text/3392-"
"leadership-council.md#top-level-teams) outlines what typically qualifies a "
"team as \"top-level\". While one could make the argument that the Release "
"team fits these points, there are arguably two aspects where it does not "
"neatly fit:"
msgstr ""

#: src/3533-combine-infra-and-release-teams.md:17
msgid ""
"\"Have a purview that is foundational to the Rust Project\": while Rust "
"releases are obviously extremely important, it is hard to argue that they "
"are \"foundational\". Just like there is no CI team (despite CI also being "
"extremely important), the release process is not a foundational piece of "
"what makes Rust, Rust."
msgstr ""

#: src/3533-combine-infra-and-release-teams.md:18
msgid ""
"\"Have a purview that not is a subset of another team's purview\": this is "
"hard to argue exactly as most teams don't have well defined purviews, but "
"one could argue that the Infrastructure team's purview is roughly \"to "
"maintain and administer all logistical activities for the continuing "
"operation of the Rust project\" which would then be a superset of what the "
"Release team's purview is. The Infrastructure team's purview already "
"contains user-facing components (e.g.,the Rust Playground and crates.io CDN "
"infrastructure) so adding additional user-facing concerns is not a "
"categorical expansion of that purview."
msgstr ""

#: src/3533-combine-infra-and-release-teams.md:20
msgid ""
"In the past, whether a team is \"top-level\" or not has not been of huge "
"consequence. However, this is no longer true since [RFC 3392](https://github."
"com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3392) introduced the Leadership Council whose "
"representation is based on top-level team status. This RFC specifically "
"called out the need for re-examination of which teams are top-level, and "
"this proposal is the first attempt at such a re-examination. The most "
"immediate practical reason for being strict with the definition of \"top-"
"level\" is to balance \"the desire for a diverse and relatively shallow "
"structure while still being practical for productive conversation and "
"consent.\""
msgstr ""

#: src/3533-combine-infra-and-release-teams.md:22
msgid ""
"With this proposal the Infrastructure team's purview does not grow "
"considerably and remains at a level similar to other existing top-level "
"teams such as a language and compiler."
msgstr ""

#: src/3533-combine-infra-and-release-teams.md:24
msgid ""
"For the purposes of actual decision making, the Release subteam retains all "
"decision-making power with regard to release related issues (i.e., this "
"proposal does not change who makes any particular decision and is purely a "
"change in Council representation). This may change over time should the "
"Infra team choose to structure itself in a different way."
msgstr ""

#: src/3533-combine-infra-and-release-teams.md:26
msgid "Practicalities"
msgstr ""

#: src/3533-combine-infra-and-release-teams.md:28
msgid ""
"Once this proposal is accepted, the Release team will move to be a subteam "
"of Infrastructure. The Infrastructure team does not change its top-level "
"form."
msgstr ""

#: src/3533-combine-infra-and-release-teams.md:30
msgid ""
"The Infrastructure team's Council representative would continue to serve on "
"the Council while the Release representative would immediately stop counting "
"as a representative for all purposes.[^plan]"
msgstr ""

#: src/3533-combine-infra-and-release-teams.md:32
msgid ""
"As part of this change, wg-triage will move out from under the Release team "
"and move to be a part of Launching Pad until a more appropriate home for the "
"working group can be found."
msgstr ""

#: src/3533-combine-infra-and-release-teams.md:34
msgid ""
"It is currently the unofficial plan that Ryan Levick will step down in his "
"role as the Infrastructure representative, and Mark Rousskov would take over "
"as the rep, but this would be made official after the merger through "
"internal Infrastructure team process."
msgstr ""

#: src/3533-combine-infra-and-release-teams.md:36
msgid "Alternatives"
msgstr ""

#: src/3533-combine-infra-and-release-teams.md:38
msgid "Combining Infra and Release into a new team"
msgstr ""

#: src/3533-combine-infra-and-release-teams.md:40
msgid ""
"Instead of merging the Release team into Infrastructure, a new team is "
"formed consisting of Infrastructure and Release as the two subteams."
msgstr ""

#: src/3533-combine-infra-and-release-teams.md:42
msgid ""
"This option is much more complex logistically speaking for the following "
"reasons:"
msgstr ""

#: src/3533-combine-infra-and-release-teams.md:43
msgid ""
"It is unclear what this team's purview would actually be (i.e., we end up in "
"the same situation as the status quo - one team with a larger purview than "
"the other - but now within this new team)"
msgstr ""

#: src/3533-combine-infra-and-release-teams.md:44
msgid ""
"Some process would need to be created to decide who the team leads would be."
msgstr ""

#: src/3533-combine-infra-and-release-teams.md:46
msgid ""
"It is not clear that there are any benefits to this alternative that are "
"worth the cost of the above complexities."
msgstr ""

#: src/3533-combine-infra-and-release-teams.md:48
msgid "Future Possibilities"
msgstr ""

#: src/3533-combine-infra-and-release-teams.md:50
msgid "Merge part of crates.io into Infrastructure"
msgstr ""

#: src/3533-combine-infra-and-release-teams.md:52
msgid ""
"Crates.io is arguably the other team next to Release with the smallest "
"purview compared to other teams. We may want to merge at least part of the "
"team (i.e., the part responsible for running the crates.io infra) into "
"Infrastructure."
msgstr ""

#: src/3533-combine-infra-and-release-teams.md:54
msgid ""
"This is not included in this proposal, because there are more open questions "
"in this case than in the case of the Release team (e.g., where would the "
"other part of the crates.io team - in charge of crates.io policy - go?)."
msgstr ""
