msgid ""
msgstr ""
"Project-Id-Version: The Rust RFC Book\n"
"POT-Creation-Date: 2025-12-22T09:04:44Z\n"
"PO-Revision-Date: \n"
"Last-Translator: \n"
"Language-Team: \n"
"Language: zh_TW\n"
"MIME-Version: 1.0\n"
"Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8\n"
"Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit\n"
"Plural-Forms: nplurals=1; plural=0;\n"

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:1
msgid "Feature Name: N/A"
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:2
msgid "Start Date: 2016-07-21"
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:3
msgid ""
"RFC PR: [rust-lang/rfcs#1683](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/1683)"
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:4
msgid "Rust Issue: N/A"
msgstr "Rust 議題：N/A"

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:6
msgid "Summary"
msgstr "摘要"

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:9
msgid "Create a team responsible for documentation for the Rust project."
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:11
msgid "Motivation"
msgstr "動機"

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:14
msgid ""
"[RFC 1068](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/blob/master/text/1068-rust-"
"governance.md) introduced a federated governance model for the Rust project. "
"Several initial subteams were set up. There was a note after the [original "
"subteam list](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/blob/master/text/1068-rust-"
"governance.md#the-teams) saying this:"
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:20
msgid ""
"In the long run, we will likely also want teams for documentation and for "
"community events, but these can be spun up once there is a more clear need "
"(and available resources)."
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:22
msgid "Now is the time for a documentation subteam."
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:24
msgid "Why documentation was left out"
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:26
msgid ""
"Documentation was left out of the original list because it wasn't clear that "
"there would be anyone but me on it. Furthermore, one of the original reasons "
"for the subteams was to decide who gets counted amongst consensus for RFCs, "
"but it was unclear how many documentation-related RFCs there would even be."
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:30
msgid "Chicken, meet egg"
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:32
msgid "However, RFCs are not only what subteams do. To quote the RFC:"
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:34
msgid ""
"Shepherding RFCs for the subteam area. As always, that means (1) ensuring "
"that stakeholders are aware of the RFC, (2) working to tease out various "
"design tradeoffs and alternatives, and (3) helping build consensus."
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:37
msgid "Accepting or rejecting RFCs in the subteam area."
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:38
msgid ""
"Setting policy on what changes in the subteam area require RFCs, and "
"reviewing direct PRs for changes that do not require an RFC."
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:39
msgid ""
"Delegating reviewer rights for the subteam area. The ability to r+ is not "
"limited to team members, and in fact earning r+ rights is a good stepping "
"stone toward team membership. Each team should set reviewing policy, manage "
"reviewing rights, and ensure that reviews take place in a timely manner. "
"(Thanks to Nick Cameron for this suggestion.)"
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:41
msgid ""
"The first two are about RFCs themselves, but the second two are more "
"pertinent to documentation. In particular, deciding who gets `r+` rights is "
"important. A lack of clarity in this area has been unfortunate, and has led "
"to a chicken and egg situation: without a documentation team, it's unclear "
"how to be more involved in working on Rust's documentation, but without "
"people to be on the team, there's no reason to form a team. For this reason, "
"I think a small initial team will break this logjam, and provide room for "
"new contributors to grow."
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:47
msgid "Detailed design"
msgstr "詳細設計"

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:50
msgid ""
"The Rust documentation team will be responsible for all of the things listed "
"above. Specifically, they will pertain to these areas of the Rust project:"
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:53
msgid "The standard library documentation"
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:54
msgid "The book and other long-form docs"
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:55
msgid "Cargo's documentation"
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:56
msgid "The Error Index"
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:58
msgid ""
"Furthermore, the documentation team will be available to help with ecosystem "
"documentation, in a few ways. Firstly, in an advisory capacity: helping "
"people who want better documentation for their crates to understand how to "
"accomplish that goal. Furthermore, monitoring the overall ecosystem "
"documentation, and identifying places where we could contribute and make a "
"large impact for all Rustaceans. If the Rust project itself has wonderful "
"docs, but the ecosystem has terrible docs, then people will still be "
"frustrated with Rust's documentation situation, especially given our anti-"
"batteries-included attitude. To be clear, this does not mean _owning_ the "
"ecosystem docs, but rather working to contribute in more ways than just the "
"Rust project itself."
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:66
msgid ""
"We will coordinate in the `#rust-docs` IRC room, and have regular meetings, "
"as the team sees fit. Regular meetings will be important to coordinate "
"broader goals; and participation will be important for team members. We hold "
"meetings weekly."
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:69
msgid "Membership"
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:71
msgid "@steveklabnik, team lead"
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:72
msgid "@GuillaumeGomez"
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:73
msgid "@jonathandturner"
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:74
msgid "@peschkaj"
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:76
msgid ""
"It's important to have a path towards attaining team membership; there are "
"some other people who have already been doing docs work that aren't on this "
"list. These guidelines are not hard and fast, however, anyone wanting to "
"eventually be a member of the team should pursue these goals:"
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:80
msgid "Contributing documentation patches to Rust itself"
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:81
msgid "Attending doc team meetings, which are open to all"
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:82
msgid "generally being available on \\[IRC\\][^IRC] to collaborate with others"
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:84
msgid ""
"I am not quantifying this exactly because it's not about reaching some "
"specific number; adding someone to the team should make sense if someone is "
"doing all of these things."
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:87
msgid "The #rust-docs channel on irc.mozilla.org"
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:89
msgid "Drawbacks"
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:92
msgid ""
"This is Yet Another Team. Do we have too many teams? I don't think so, but "
"someone might."
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:94
msgid "Alternatives"
msgstr "替代方案"

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:97
msgid ""
"The main alternative is not having a team. This is the status quo, so the "
"situation is well-understood."
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:99
msgid ""
"It's possible that docs come under the purvew of \"tools\", and so maybe the "
"docs team would be an expansion of the tools team, rather than its own new "
"team. Or some other subteam."
msgstr ""

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:102
msgid "Unresolved questions"
msgstr "未解決的問題"

#: src/1683-docs-team.md:105
msgid "None."
msgstr ""
